Hi there. In this video we are going
to go over how to use the man
command, which is one of the more important
tools that you can use to find out
about various commands and also about standard library
functions for C. So man pages are pretty
nice. The easiest way to use one is
if you happen to know the command you're
looking for, you can type man and then
the name. So let's say man l s
looks like this and it gives you a
little description and it gives you all of
the various flags that you use for the
program you're trying to look at. So it's
nice. And I'm just using the up and
down arrow keys, you can also use the
j to go down and the k to
go back up, much like VIM which is
in a different video. And you can, keep
doing that, to find it. If you wanna
find something, you type the slash key, forward
slash, and notice I've typed forward slash down
here, and then you type something like, let's
say I wanted to find out what the
dash a command did, I type slash then
dash a and then enter and it will
come up and over here that's not the
one I'm looking for so I type n
lowercase n to go to the next one,
that's not it. Let's see, I guess I'm
already too far down so if I because
I kept hitting n and it says pattern
not found but if I hit uppercase n
it will take me back to the top
and you can find that, there it is,
dash a stands for do not ignore entries
starting with period which are your hidden files.
So, there's also for instance dash uppercase a
which is nice, just it still gives you
the hidden files but not the two special
directories. So there you go. Now if you
wanna exit out of man, you just type
the q command and it will take you
back to where you are which is kinda
nice, it actually refreshes the screen back to
where you are. So if I have something
up here and I go, oh, how do
I wanna keep that screen and I type
man l s, when I type q it
goes back and refreshes the screen to where
you are, so so that's nice. Now what
if you don't want to or you don't
know the actual command but you go, you
know, I think something has to do with,
print for instance, man dash k print and
it will it will, give you all the
different things. Man dash k means, find all
the commands that happen to, say something about
printing in them. So you'll notice there's lots
in here. I'm actually gonna do my regular
scroll up to see some of these. But,
let's say I look through this and I
go, oh, you know what? It's actually printf
that I'm looking for. If I type man
dash k printf, it'll give me just the
printf commands. And you'll notice there's a couple
in here. Oh, it is just printf. So
man printf will give me the Unix command
print f, which says, oh, it's, you know,
you have formatting and you have options. It's
much like the c print f command actually.
In fact, it'll do all the different, types
of things. So if I wanna just type
print f and then I type hello world
like that and then a new line it
will do hello world new line. I forgot
the new line by the way it will
do that and then put my prompt after
it like this probably not what you want
to do. Another similar command happens to be
echo which we use probably more often. Hello
world like that, we'll just echo hello world.
So anyway that's how you use that, synonym
for man k is actually apropos and then
printf and it will give you that. Now,
if you notice by the way, printf, there's
two of them here. Which one do we
look at? Well, the first one that comes
up is the one if you just type
man printf. But this means the type of,
the part in the manual that it's actually
in. Three happens to be all of the
standard, the C standard library functions, which is
actually kind of cool. If you type man
three printf, it will tell you the how
to actually use it. So you have pound
includes studio dot h and then or s
t d I o dot h and then
you can use printf from there and it
tells you how to do that. So for
instance, there's another one man three a t
o I, which actually stands for ASCII two
integer. So for some reason you wanted to
convert a string to an integer, this is
one way to do it in c and
it will tell you, how to actually do
it. So that's kind of nice as well.
So that's the man command, you should get
used to it and you should you will
use it frequently when you want to look
up various flags and options for commands. Thanks.